Hey, welcome back. So
today we're going to
talk a little bit about
C++ variables so
far we have worked with constant values
such as the ones we've used before I
don't know it was like 2015, why do I keep writing fifteen?
is beyond me 2016 for a year or I don't
know some number for a month or you had
a string hello hello world or whatever
well now I would like to introduce
variables so variable is just the name
of a location in the
memory or RAM are a so
RAM, this is a location
within memory this
this RAM is like
those plates that you
put into your computer
I don't know like 4
gigs plates 6 sorry,
4816 etc, so you can
have I don't know,
most people I think I
have arrived in between 8 and 16
gigs of ram something like that I'm
pretty sure you know what I'm talking
about,
in case you don't, just open up Google and
type in what is RAM or something like
that and use your
favorite search engine
anyway using variables
we will directly
access memory locations
so variables can
be of different type
and this type must be
defined whenever we
declare a variable
without this, we
won't be able to
actually use them,
well in most cases,
there are some border
cases where this
perhaps is not true but that doesn't
matter for the time being the syntax for
declaring variables is as follows
so you first basically
state the type of
the variable so you
type in some sort of a type
and then you'll give the
variable name so I don't
know, var name and that's
it you can even assign
a value here but we're gonna
get into that. Anyway, so
type, represents the
type of the variable and
variable name is
basically just the name
of the variable,
there are rules for
naming variables
name consists of
letters of English
alphabet a to z a
lower case letters A
to Z capital case
letters, digits 0 to 9
and underscore sign.
You cannot use pretty
much anything else
variable names also cannot
begin with a digit, only letters and
underlined signs are allowed to be the
beginning of the beginnings of name or
the name of these variables.
So here's an
example of correct
and incorrect names
so for example if I'm typing
00 var underline name,
this would be an incorrect
example of a name
if I'm typing underline,
var, name, this would
be a perfectly legit variable name.
So this
is not hard, you just
use letters in the
alphabet lowercase
and uppercase use
digits from 0 to 9 and you can use an
underscore sign that's it nothing else
but you really don't
need anything else
you can name your
variables rather
easily just don't put
the numbers in the
first place and that's
pretty much it it
is considered to be
a good practice for
variable names to
be self descriptive
for example if you
go ahead and do
this let's say that
you have a max and
minimum value of something
I don't know, doesn't
matter, so max this
would be a name for
one variable and then you would have
min, this would be a name for another
variable but
what would be bad name for this is if
you type them like I don't know, G and then
r, because you have
no idea what this
means it's a good
idea it's a good
practice it's good
practice to actually
name your variables
in a descriptive
fashion so it that
pretty much explain
what sort of values
today contain, you
could have named the variable
temperature or degrees or something like
that but giving some random names that
don't actually associated with the value
of the variable but that makes very
little sense you'll see later on when
you get it doesn't
make it that much of
a difference in a
simple program like
this but later on when
you get into code
into a into coding
and if you have a
program that contains
like one million
lines of code it is
a very good idea to
follow standardized programming
practices otherwise you will get lost on
or other people will get lost in
your code and you as well.
Anyway,
C++ types can be
grouped into embedded
this is a part of C++
and user-defined
so a user can define them, so
user can define a type as well
embedded ones that are a part
of C++ can be divided into grow
real and pointer so
let's go ahead and
take a look at some
of them into grow
ones, bool I will go over all
of these, you have bool, you have char
you have short in a
long long actually
the variable is a
variable type is long
long long and then
you have long long
signed unsigned and
for real you have
like floating pool
float double and long
double four pointer
well you can put
pretty much all of the above into the
pointers
anyway it doesn't
really matter I shall
explain these individually
I just wanted
to mention them there. Now the
user defined ones these are a bit more
complicated ones can be divided into
standard which are a part of C++
libraries for example
you could have
something like a std,
colon, colon, string
or std, colon, colon,
vector I know and
those would be the
ones that are defined
by the user but there are some more
complicated things that a user can
when a user can define a
type and this sort of variables I do
believe, yes they can be found in the
keylogger course throughout the
keylogger as we
needed to, a lot of
things to get to be
custom-made so you
can see them there,
but anyway forget
about that for now,
just focus on the
more simple stuff
I just wanted to
mention them that's it.
For now, we will
use embedded types
so the ones that are
in C++ so these are,
you have bool, now
bool can be either true or
it can be false
those are the two
values that this type
can have, so if I have
bool, which is the
type and then the
name of the variable
can be test, so this
can be equal to
basically true or false
this can also be substituted with
numbers 0 would represent something to
be false and any positive integer like
123 or I don't know this number
they would all
evaluate to true, so
it can only have two
values it can be
either true or it can be false
now the next one that
you have is called
Char, Char stands
for characters so I
don't know you could
char c, this could
be equal to a character
I don't know, w so
character W that's it, it contains
characters basically unsigned char you
have this one which is unsigned char, and the
range of unsigned char is from 0 to 255
and you have signed char whose range is
from minus 128
to 127, if you have a red X if you have a like
something that stands in front of
char, in front of pretty much any other
variable that says variable type it
says like unsigned or signed it is
usually referring to positive and
positive and negative numbers so if I
say for example
unsigned that means
that usually this
type can only contain
positive values and
if I say sign then
it can also have
negative values I know
I notice that this seems a little bit weird that a
character contains
positive and negative
values but you will
see when we get like
when we mention the ASCII table and
how the char actually works, and how you
can use actually
numbers instead of
characters which
eventually evaluate two
characters but in
general you can also
have like insigned
int, which is like an
integer but if it's
unsigned integer
that it can only
receive a positive
value then, only a positive
value can be assigned
to it, so unsigned int
and I don't know int
number equals, so
this can only receive
value, this can only
be assigned values
like 10 I don't know one
2, as long as it's
a positive whole
number, just want
to explain that
would unsigned and sign.
You also have a
variable type called
short this is to
represent very small
numbers let's go
ahead and use signed
and unsigned again so on
unsigned short this basically would
represent numbers in the range between 0
and it's written on my
screen here 65536 65536
so this would represent
numbers between
this range, and you would
have like down below,
this is some code that
I'm ranging here so i'm
unsigned here, ups, sorry
signed short which would be minus 32268
so this would be the beginning of
the range and the end of the range would
be 32267, excelent. So
this would be a type
short which has this
range and only values
from this range can be assigned to a
variable of type short and likewise
unsigned short and
signed short can only
receive unsigned short
variable can only
receive values within this range.
Ok, so
just to clarify something
you don't need
to write unsigned unsigned short you can
also just type like short
and that would be
pretty much the same
as me typing signed
short so these two
types are pretty much
exactly the same meaning so no big deal
there, I know, it
might seem a little
boring but we need
to go over types of
variables and
variables themselves
before we can move
freely anywhere
probably one of the
most important things
in C++ when we get
into more complex up
it's going to get a little bit more
interesting but for the time being I
just have to go over
these basics if
some of you have
a good amount of
previous programming
experience, you might
find this extremely
boring but down the
road come the complex stuff.
I need to
take into consideration
that a lot of
people are complete beginners and I do
need to explain like everything from a
to z. So that the course
would be adjusted
for a broader audience
as we did leave
as we are most likely
going to label
this course as the
beginners one as from
beginner to advanced pretty much.
Anyway,
our next variable
type will be int, so
you have int, it stands
for integers, again
you have signed and
unsigned which you
can place in front of
them, which is no big
deal I've showed to
you a moment ago then
again you have long,
now this is to
represent bigger
numbers, we also have
both signed and
unsigned and then you
have a type long long
I don't know tests
and that would be the declaration of the
long
long long type of a variable type which
is this is a variable test which is of
type long long let's put it like that.
This is to represent like really big
numbers I mean really
really big numbers
long is just to
represent big numbers
and we're not going
to be using these
that much really,
mostly we're gonna be
using like int, bool, char, etc, double
also float float
floating points so this
means that this
represents real number
the precision is pretty
much 6 decimals.
So what is this? so
float if they're just
float some and number equals two zero
point zero point I don't know, 4343 this would
be a floating point
number, an integer on the
other hand int I don't
know, int num would be
equal like them, to see
the difference this
one is a whole number
10 and float n the
floating point is zero point something, I don't know It doesn't really matter so that just
showing you pretty the
much difference then
again you have double
now this presents
again real numbers,
the precision of a
double is around 13
to 15 decimals you
also have like long
double same as for
double but way bigger
precision, let's put
it like that so double would be
basically like it's
a double the equals
this would be a double four-point 33
this would be a double this will be a
value that would
be assigned to a
variable of type double.
So you might now
ask me if you have like
float which is like f and I
don't know, this is like 0.54
and you have int i equals
10, why on earth
would you ever use
these two? why wouldn't
you just use a
double? and for everything?
Well, the differences
is in memory space,
so some of these
require less memory
space than others and especially if you
type in like unsigned int so if you
know that the that
this integer I will
never be assigned
a value that is
negative, you can
declare it as unsigned
int, and the smaller
your variable range
something like that, you have the less memory will take, you can
look it up on the net
the order of types which type
reserves how much memory because
immediately when you
declare it, the
computer will actually
reserve a portion
of the memory for that particular
variable, this is a very
good coding practice and this
is one of the advantages of C++ over
some of the other
programming languages
like for example
PHP or Python or
something like that,
well maybe not python,
but over PHP where you
don't really need to
declare types of
variables, rather instead
you just declare
variables, here you can
actually declare types
of variables and
in such a way save
up a lot of RAM
which is a very good
coding practice.
So let's go ahead
and practice these
variables, a little bit
to clear of you and
see what happens. Let's
go to a short coding
exercise and see how this actually works
in real examples but I'm running a
little bit short on time so we'll
continuing to follow tutorial.